mtls over grpc (#291)
eclipse-ankaios/ankaios: server/doc/swdesign/README.md

Rationale:
The Ankaios server uses the PEM files to establish a mutual transport layer security (mTLS) communication.

Tags:
- AnkaiosServer

Needs:
- impl
- stest

#### Server supports cli argument for insecure communication
`swdd~server-supports-cli-argument-for-insecure-communication~1`

Status: approved

The Ankaios server shall support the cli argument `--insecure` with short alias `-k`.

Comment:
The Ankaios server supports an insecure communication channel to the Ankaios server. Communicating over insecure channels is convenient during an evaluation or a development phase.

Tags:
- AnkaiosServer

Needs:
- impl
- stest

#### Server establishes insecure connection on provided insecure cli argument
`swdd~server-establishes-insecure-communication-based-on-provided-insecure-cli-argument~1`

Status: approved

When the user starts the Ankaios server with the arguments `-k` or `--insecure` and the Ankaios server initializes the communication middleware, then the Ankaios server shall instruct the communication middleware to use an insecure communication channel.

Tags:
- AnkaiosServer

> - CommunicationMiddleware

Reviewer: We don't need to tag the CommunicationMiddleware. It is an external component and tagging it does not bring any benefit.
```suggestion
```

Needs:
- impl

#### Server provides file paths for mTLS to communication middleware
`swdd~server-provides-file-paths-to-communication-middleware~1`

Status: approved

When the file paths of the root certificate, the server certificate and the server key is provided upon startup, then the Ankaios server shall provide each of these file paths to the communication middleware.

> Comment:
> The communication middleware parses the content of the files.
> 

Reviewer: Not really providing any information:
```suggestion
```

Rationale:
The communication middleware is responsible for establishing a secure communication channel.

Tags:

> - AnkaiosServer
> - CommunicationMiddleware

Reviewer: We don't need to tag the CommunicationMiddleware. It is an external component and tagging it does not bring any benefit.
```suggestion
- AnkaiosServer
```

Needs:
- impl

#### Server fails upon missing pem file paths and insecure cli arguments
`swdd~server-fails-on-missing-file-paths-and-insecure-cli-arguments~1`

Status: approved

> When the user starts the Ankaios server without specifying the cli arguments for the mTLS PEM file paths and the insecure cli argument, then the Ankaios server shall:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the user starts the Ankaios server without specifying the cli arguments for the mTLS PEM file paths or the insecure cli argument, then the Ankaios server shall:
```

* exit with a non zero exit code
* output an error message containing the reason and a help message

Rationale:

> The demand for an explicit communication mode prevents a user from unintentionally creating an Ankaios setup with a mixture of communication modes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The demand for an explicit communication mode prevents a user from implicitly creating an Ankaios setup using insecure communication.
```

Tags:
- AnkaiosServer

Needs:
- impl

> #### Server supports environment variables
> `swdd~server-supports-environment-variables~1`
> 
> Status: approved
> 
> The Ankaios server shall support the usage of the following environment variables:
> 
> - `ANKSERVER_CA_PEM`, for providing the file path to a certificate authority in PEM format,
> - `ANKSERVER_CRT_PEM`, for providing the file path to a certificate in PEM format,
> - `ANKSERVER_KEY_PEM`, for providing the file path to a key in PEM format,
> - `ANKSERVER_INSECURE`, for providing a boolean to enable/disable the insecure communication
> 
> Rationale:
> This avoids passing cli arguments when starting an server, which improves the usability.
> 
> Tags:
> - AnkaiosServer
> 
> Needs:
> - impl
> - stest
> 
> #### Server prioritizes cli argument over environment variable
> `swdd~server-prioritizes-cli-argument-over-environment-variable~1`
> 
> Status: approved
> 
> Command line arguments provided to the the Ankaios server shall overwrite environment variables.
> 
> Tags:
> - AnkaiosServer
> 
> Needs:
> - impl
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Server supports environment variables
`swdd~server-supports-environment-variables~1`

Status: approved

The Ankaios server shall support the usage of the following environment variables which have lower priority compared to explicitly provided cli arguments:

- `ANKSERVER_CA_PEM`, for providing the file path to a certificate authority in PEM format,
- `ANKSERVER_CRT_PEM`, for providing the file path to a certificate in PEM format,
- `ANKSERVER_KEY_PEM`, for providing the file path to a key in PEM format,
- `ANKSERVER_INSECURE`, for providing a Boolean to enable/disable the insecure communication

Rationale:
Environment variables improve the usability, but are less important than explicitly provided configurations.

Tags:
- AnkaiosServer

Needs:
- impl
- stest

```

Tags:
- AnkaiosServer

Needs:
- impl
- stest

#### Server establishes insecure connection on provided insecure cli argument
`swdd~server-establishes-insecure-communication-based-on-provided-insecure-cli-argument~1`

Status: approved

When the user starts the Ankaios server with the arguments `-k` or `--insecure` and the Ankaios server initializes the communication middleware, then the Ankaios server shall instruct the communication middleware to use an insecure communication channel.

Tags:
- AnkaiosServer

Needs:
- impl

#### Server provides file paths for mTLS to communication middleware
`swdd~server-provides-file-paths-to-communication-middleware~1`

Status: approved

When the file paths of the root certificate, the server certificate and the server key is provided upon startup, then the Ankaios server shall provide each of these file paths to the communication middleware.

Rationale:
The communication middleware is responsible for establishing a secure communication channel.

Tags:
- AnkaiosServer

Needs:
- impl

#### Server fails upon missing pem file paths and insecure cli arguments
`swdd~server-fails-on-missing-file-paths-and-insecure-cli-arguments~1`

Status: approved

> When the user starts the Ankaios server without specifying the cli arguments for the mTLS PEM file paths or the insecure cli argument, then the Ankaios server shall:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user starts the Ankaios server without specifying the cli arguments for the mTLS PEM file paths or the insecure cli argument, then the Ankaios server shall:
```
